Dictators are enormously strong and
enormously weak at the same time. A
dictatorship can be enormously weak
because they're illegitimate, right? And
at the same time, they're strong because
they control the apparatus of the state.
When you have power and you ascend to
power in a fundamentally illegitimate
structure, who do you trust? The answer
is no one. High trust comes through a
spree decor and believing in the mission
and the legitimacy of what you're doing.
That is like one of our enormous
strengths. [music] We are fundamentally
legitimate.
>> I think to [music] begin you have to
define what it might mean for us to win
some of these open theaters of war in
the world right now. We came through
this period where anyone that was a
macro type person that I would have in
that seat would talk about how the US
this multipolar world in the US is
retreating from the global stage and is
not going to be the world police any
longer and we don't need the interaction
with the rest of the world. Seems like
we're in a very different world now and
everyone's wondering what winning would
even mean in a theater like Iran and I'm
curious for you to just riff on that.
>> Winning is politically defined. you
know, the straight of Hormuz was open
before this contingency at the end of
the day. And so if all we get is the
straight of Hormuz back open, you know,
strategically maybe was a juice worth
the squeeze for lack of a better term. I
would argue that we've you've degraded
an enormous amount of Iranian military
capability, which is what the
department's internal fragment fraggo
their order was to do. And so you have
degraded that. But the straight of
Hormuza as an economic choke point has
has to open back up in order for
commerce to work. But you know, we're
sitting here today. The straits
functionally closed. The economy is
still ripping here in the United States.
Markets high. You have high inflation.
But I think the conventional wisdom is
that America
can um can withstand less pain than the
counterparty. There's this hybridization
that happened in certain parts of the
Shia Muslim world through the works of
Shiriati which is a hybridization of
Marxism and martyrdom together which is
kind of like an absolute control of of
an environment and to say if you martyr
yourself you're winning you're
ascending. And so it's such it's such a
satanical philosophy because it promotes
internal destruction and sacrifice to
the limit as evidence that you're
winning. And so we were talking right
before we sat down of like you know Gaza
has been leveled right by by any stretch
of the imagination and there are still
elements of Hamas operating but have
they won? Well, in their mind, in that
shiriotti form of of of red Shiaism,
they're winning. So, you can you can
bring people to the precipice of their
own destruction and in that ideology,
that form of religious ideology, they're
winning. So, it's like you're going to
have to bring an enormous quantum of
hurt. And the problem or the challenge
with democracies democracies are how
much of our moral rectitude will we
compromise in order to achieve the
political goal if we don't feel the
existential threat sitting here today in
in New York.
>> Yeah.
>> So that is that is tough. There is you
know there's the tailor view of flexible
power of this kind of proportional
response to threats and then there's the
Eisenhower school of massive
retaliation. But you know, I love Cotkin
because he talks about if you don't know
history, you're, you know, everything is
unprecedented. But the Japanese had a
martyrdom culture that they memorialized
into their force structure, right,
through kamicazi. They they would chain
people up in trees in Okinawa. And so
why did we drop two bombs on them? We
dropped the first bomb. Enormous mass
destruction. They refused to surrender
and they were prepared to fight to the
death. we dropped the second bomb and it
was only Emperor Hirohito that broke the
tie and if he didn't break that tie if
he said continue they would have
sacrificed themselves.
So it's extremely hard with a martyrdom
culture to have regime change. And then
the question is is that what are you
going to defect to, right? You need an
alternative power structure there to
defect to. You can defect from which is
you leave, right? But to defect to to
get a to get regime change even if 85 or
90% want the regime to change, you need
an alternative force structure to do it.
And so the IRGC controls half of the
economy and they have all the guns. And
so they have all of these elements of
power. They're very hard to replace. And
so can you co-opt them successfully
between all the assets that they own in
Western Europe? They own an enormous
quantum of assets in Western Europe.
>> What kind of assets?
>> Homes in London, villas, billions of
dollars that they've exfiltrated from
the country. And Abas Milani has kind of
documented this in in voluminous detail.
He's wonderful scholar on the topic, but
really think of the average Iranian. The
limit at the ATM is $7. That's how much
you can pull out. And you had the second
largest bank fail about 2 months before
this recent contingency. You know,
Milani calls it a um a mafia style
regime, and it's true. like the the
quantum of corruption is absolutely
enormous but you know dictators are
enormously strong and enormously weak at
the same time. This is actually like a
good frame for for our entire
conversation which is to say we have to
be able to hold two competing ideas in
the same vessel and both can be true. A
dictatorship can be enormously weak
because they're illegitimate, right?
They haven't been tested. they only have
to be stronger than their strongest
opposition and opposition is outlawed
and so they're weak right and at the
same time they're strong because they
control the apparatus of the state and
so this is the cauldron that you have in
the people that you're fighting and I
believe there is a growing body of
evidence that suggests that Ayatollah
hominee martyr bartered himself a he
like allowed himself to be above ground
and to be targeted to die to solve a
whole series of problems. What? That he
killed potentially 30 or 40,000 of his
own people. That he was sick and
succession was unclear at the end of the
day. Maybe there would be some
infighting. And so martyrdom in the
Shiriotti school of redeeism is like
this beautiful solution, right? He was
sick and ill. And so there's a growing
body of evidence that suggests he he
wanted to be killed. Like these are the
adversaries here. So I think winning at
the limit and the way we think of it in
almost like a documentary for World War
II is really hard. And but we
experienced that in World War II as
well, right? The bombing of Dresden.
There was, you know, there was this
horror that we would firebomb a city and
kill 30,000 people under the premise
that they have to know that they lost.
And this is what happens when you deal
with fanaticism.
It makes you question the kernel of your
moral fiber as a democracy and you have
to go really far. I just think the
analog with Israel and Hamas and Gaza is
like a perfect example.
Israel has annihilated Gaza. It has been
leveled. You can't say that Gaza from a
technological standpoint that Hamas from
a technological standpoint has any kind
of military capability compared to the
Israelis. It's like comparing a toaster
oven to toaster oven to the sun, right?
Is the analog I like to say. But in
order to win it, look how far that
they've had to go. And I don't know if
Netanyahu has the support in the Knesset
for the purposes of doing this last leg
in the ground work, but it's what's
necessary for his condition of winning.
You have to have a design on a on a
concept of positive propaganda, right?
propaganda has a has a bad connotation
to it, but it's just it's your
marketing. It's marketing. It's your
political worldview. And so, look,
Israel has just not spent the calories
on it, right? And so, the question is,
should they
believe the answer is yes, right? In a
finite pie, how much of the pie should
they spend on it? It's not immaterial.
And you know, their adversaries are
spending enormously on it because it's
working. But also the martyrdom culture
has
because it's hybridized with religion to
create a higher form of fanaticism. It
allows you to run for so long. And so
the design to co-opt American
universities can be traced to a single
hotel room in Philadelphia by the FBI
listening with laser microphones where
after the Oslo Accords, the Palestinian
Authority with Arafat is brought in and
Hamas is considered left out in the
cold. They go to Hamas to go, "Guess
what? You're not in this deal." And so
now this is a political organization
with no home. And so they laid out in
the single conversation that the FBI has
transcripts of of their plan to co-opt
universities and co-op university
teaching and institutions for the
express purposes of changing
western opinion over the course of 20
years. I think Bezos has attributed the
quote that if you have a seven-year
plan, you win because most people give
up. These guys had a 20-year plan and it
totally worked. But,
you know, to make it seem like it was
this um this just kind of natural
formation out of the ether
through moral will is is to downband the
sophistication of of what these people
in the Muslim Brotherhood and Hamas set
out to do. They set out to do this. They
were so committed to it and they saw it
through. We're talking about people
advocating for a society that brutalizes
their own people and denies the rights
for the, you know, and you have a series
of people, you know, advocating for them
that would be denied those same rights
there, right? It was done with intent.
It was by design. And so I would say
this administration is moving the gold
posts in the popular vernacular of what
winning means. But my view is if you
have a straight open and you have a
degraded Iranian military capability
that can't reconstitute itself very
quickly through oil profits, then that
will be a win. And if it can quickly
reconstitute its export network of
terror and the straight is closed, then
strategically it will be a failure. Most
software companies try to maximize your
time on their app to juice engagement.
RAMP does the exact opposite. RAMP
understands that no one [music] wants to
spend hours chasing receipts, reviewing
expense reports, and checking for policy
violations. So, they built their tools
to give [music] that time back, using AI
to automate 85% of expense reviews with
99% accuracy. And since Ramp saves
companies 5%, it's no wonder that
Shopify runs on RAM, Stripe runs on RAM,
and my [music] business does, too. To
see what happens when you eliminate the
busy work, check out ramp.com/invest.
Felix by Rogo is a personal finance
agent that turns a single [music] prompt
into finished client ready work using
your firm's own templates, context, and
standards. Send Felix an email like,
"Take these comments and turn them for
me." Or update my tracker with the
context of [music] these emails or run
the ability to pay math on this buyer
and Felix sends back finished PowerPoint
decks, Excel models, and sourced
research. Felix works the way your team
already does, delivering work quickly
and accurately around the clock. Learn
more at rogo.ai/felix.
OpenAI, Cursor, Enthropic, Perplexity,
and Verscell all have something in
common. They all use WorkOS. [music] And
here's why. To achieve enterprise
adoption at scale, you have to deliver
on core capabilities like SSO, skim,
[music] arbback, and audit logs. That's
where work OS comes in. Instead of
spending months building these mission
critical capabilities yourself, you can
just use work OS APIs to gain all of
them on day zero. [music] That's why so
many of the top AI teams you hear about
already run on work OS. Work OS is the
fastest way to become enterprise ready
and stay focused on what matters most,
your product. Visit works.com to get
started. What do you think will happen
in the straight? How would you describe
the state of things today and the
options that the rest of the world has
or we have going forward? What do you
think will happen
>> in practical terms? The rest of the
world like we're there, right? And then
we have the Iranians and you know there
are foreign flagged and you know
commercial vessels there but no one else
is there in practical terms. It's just
us. Yeah.
>> And the rest of the world is really to a
large extent watching save for the Gulf
Arab states. The amazing thing is the
Gulf Arab states have a much stronger
will to fight. UAE has left OPEC, right?
That's that's kind of big. And then they
said they will participate in uh
projecting force with their own forces
at the end of the day. That's pretty
big, too. They are very concerned that
we will lose our will to fight by virtue
of the fact of whatever economic pain in
the interim basis that it generates.
But, you know, the concept of overcoming
the blockade is going to need
like more magazine depth, more forces in
the region. We're going to need an
amphibious force on the shore for sure.
That is a, you know, that is a major
escalation. And so, that's where
Taylor's theory and Eisenhower's theory
begin to merge.
>> Can you can you describe those two? It's
such an interesting interesting history.
So Maxwell Taylor is a four-star general
as is Kennedy's uh chairman of the joint
chiefs of staff was great military
leader but also you know could be blamed
for the escalation of the Vietnam war.
Eisenhower's warning about the defense
kind of the military defense industrial
complex really came out of this concern
of we now have this new super weapon and
so that should really work as the
maximal deterrent for any of these
things breaking out and so why spend all
the calories on building all of these
proportional capabilities
when through a chain of escalation it's
just ultimately going to lead to
>> the big red button right those are kind
of the competing theories Eisenhower's
theory was
kind of maximal deterrence. If you do
anything, we're going to use the really
special stuff. And Taylor's was we're
going to use proportional force. And he
had had viewed it as a deterrence gap
because are we really going to go
nuclear for small incursions,
small footfalls? And I think to an
extent that was right, but all of it
leads towards escalation, right? And so
if you don't embark with this very clear
directive internally of what you want to
accomplish from a political standpoint
and you're not crisp about it, then you
lose political will and then you lose
the ability to do it. You lose Congress,
you lose the budget, right? You
ultimately lose the executive. So that
becomes more and more important. But you
you have to paint the target of what you
want to accomplish. And so all these
things are political. So, who is more
right do you think between Eisenhower
and Taylor? And like apply those two
lenses to today's stance for the US like
what is the US doing not just in the
Iranian theater but like in general with
its military with the department of war.
What are they doing? What should they be
doing that they're not doing? What are
they doing that they shouldn't be doing?
I think it's fair to say you need both,
right? Otherwise, if you took an
exclusive kind of maximalist view of
Eisenhower of having this nuclear
deterrent at the end of the day, your
only response is nuclear deterrence. Can
you imagine the world that we'd be
living in? Now, [clears throat] you'd
say, there are some people that say,
"Well, great. That would mean we
wouldn't get involved in any of these
contingencies and we wouldn't have
gotten involved in Vietnam. We wouldn't
have gotten involved in Iraq. we
probably wouldn't have gotten involved
in Afghanistan because we wouldn't have
this flexible projection of force to
correspondingly respond and maybe we
wouldn't have the temperament to drop a
bomb on someone at the end of the day.
Maybe we would. But the binary choice
would be so stark, right? And so
flexible power has all these gradations
of capability that Taylor outlined and
that have been modernized for the new
concepts of warfare. And that's how we
build magazine depth in all of these
things. Tom Hawk missile is not a
nuclear weapon. Himars is not a nuclear
weapon. It's the concept of being able
to enforce the smaller infringements, if
you will. And so, you probably need
both. I ju I just think it would be a
very scary world if all we had was a
nuclear button in order to prevent
uh a full-scale contingency. How would
you compare the state of our military
capability and prowess today to when you
were in the Pentagon?
>> We're we're the best, man. We're we're
[laughter] so someone asked me earlier
today, they they had said, "What's the
grade that you give it?" And I said,
"It's not fair to do this huge compound
grade because one, this is a government
organ, right? So, how great can a
government organ be?" our ability to
train and equip the forces and what they
[clears throat] deliver. It's the best
fighting force in the world that the
world has ever known. And you have to do
some relative comparison to the rest of
the militaries around the world. We are
number one, but it is a body of
government. And so because it's a body
of government, it gets what? One-year
money from Congress. You have deck
chairs that constantly change. You have
these features of government that make
it suboptimal at the end of the day. But
as a grade as a military, right, and its
capability, I give it a I give it a
super high grade. You know, is the
bureaucracy a problem? Yes. Do we have
to modernize it? Yes. Do we go through
it every 20 years? Yes. Because we
recognize how important it is. But our
ability to project force is so good. And
I think having a pacing threat is unto
itself is valuable to make sure that we
are serious about maintaining
capabilities. I love the works of Darter
because he's so clear about how strong
and weak China is at the same time.
>> Who's Dart?
>> So Dart is a well- reggarded historian
on China and has a theory on how China
is not a superpower just by virtue of
how illegitimate and how weak it is and
how how tense the the the plenary in the
party is. and he has good points. The
Chinese equivalent of the chairman of
Joint Chiefs of Staff has disappeared.
He went to kindergarten with Xi Jinping.
Like these guys are close. And so when
you when you have power and you ascend
power in a fundamentally illegitimate
structure, who do you trust? The answer
is no one. You are [snorts] constantly
worried that someone's going to put a
bullet in the back of your head. And
then that form of illegitimacy cascades
down through the immediate organs of
that government to include its military.
Right? And we've talked about their lack
of jointness, the corruption internally
within the force, the corruption in the
missile crew. I mean, they have turned
over their senior meter military
leadership like like three or four times
in the last three years. That is not a
high trust environment. High trust comes
through espree decor and believing in
the mission and legitimacy of what
you're doing. That is like one of our
enormous strengths. But their magazine
depth industrially is so enormous. So
the calculus becomes can the magazine
depth overcome their institutional
weakness at the end of the day. And it's
a good question and that's why we are
embarking on this enormous we as a
country [clears throat] are embarking on
this enormous effort to industrialized
in order to add magazine depth to to the
capabilities we have. You wouldn't add
magazine depth if you had the the the
maximalist view of of nuclear deterrent.
You have magazine depth when you believe
in the concept of flexible power.
>> I talked to Sham from Palunteer about
this. he had just come out with this
book about I think it was called
mobilize uh the book about this exact
thing of increasing magazine depth. I
don't think he used those words but it's
it's what he meant. How would you grade
us on that specific thing and like what
is the state of it today? Like are we
doing a good job? Who is doing it? How's
that going to unfold? We're in a
democracy and so in a dictatorship if
you don't build magazine depth and
that's your job, you're dead. And so
that mechanism of enforcement is is
pretty compelling. Here we balance
things like will it be profitable,
right? Will it have duration?
You know, and Congress is giving
one-year money. And so there are new
efforts to create multi-year contracts
for ordinance, which we've never done
before. We really need it. It's great.
So we're we're changing the the
architecture to allow us to do more to
add to magazine depths.
We need to go faster for the purposes of
also having filling the deterrence gap,
right? So we can stop small incursions,
you know, on the margins, especially
with the Southeast Asian nations that we
have cooperative peacekeeping agreements
with. You know, these these bilateral
agreements where we have to protect them
and they're being violated right now,
like the Philippines, for example. So we
have to do more there. It's getting
better. And compare it to anyone else in
the West, we're still the best, right?
It's just your adversary has a political
structure that allows them to bring
people to the precipice. But the
illegitimacy
of the Chinese, fundamentally an
illegitimate power, is also our
advantage. And we are making enormous
strides in the clandestine services of
co-opting that environment.
>> Say more about that.
>> She doesn't know who's on our side in
his standing committee or on his side.
Every day he wakes up with the thought
of maybe I need to kill someone off.
That is our edge. Our edge is that he is
fundamentally illegitimate. The monopoly
of power that is communism.
Their form of of Marxism of communism is
extremely powerful because the appar the
apparatus of an enormous economy to pay
off all these kinds of people. But they
are illegitimate and our ability to
recruit and retain and train
it had it had really degraded and we had
lost a lot of capability through a
series of assets that were caught but we
have rebuilt that in a in a very
meaningful way and you know I I don't
think she sleeps well at night.
>> Is that very recent that change? No,
these things are are built brick by by
brick, right? You know, we have these
these government agencies that everyone
goes into work every day, you know,
Monday to Sunday and their job is how am
I going to infiltrate this political
this illegitimate political structure
for the purposes of making it weak. You
know, we have people they drive their
car in and they have their sack lunch
and this is what they do every day and
ultimately we break through. Why?
Because
every Chinese person in the standing
committee has a relative somewhere in
the United States, how many degrees
removed that owns a small business that
is doing well and is able to
fundamentally live free, you know, and
so like we can't forget what makes us,
you know, special.
>> Yeah.
>> And that we are the bugout point for the
world. Even for the people in the
standing committee
that are worried if they're on the outs,
right? They have a plan to get here. So,
we have weaknesses, but we also have
enormous strengths. And their weaknesses
are also enormous. It doesn't mean that
they can't bring us to the precipice.
Their mass is so much greater than us,
right? Like their population size and
what they can do industrially. Look, it
is a dictatorship, right? It is a
totalitarian regime. I don't even know
how this is up for debate. I just think
the threat of that is lost. That's
that's what we're talking about here.
And so
they are fundamentally strong and weak
at the same time. We can hold both of
those in the same vessel. But look, I
believe in our lifetime China will fall.
I believe in our lifetime Iran will
fall.
>> What does it mean for China to fall? I
know what it means for Iran to fall.
>> I believe it will be run like Taiwan.
I believe it will fall. Now the Soviet
Union like we grew up with this concept
of the Soviet Union. It had this
enormous technical capability. It's this
monolith.
It lasted several generations and then
all of a sudden it fell. It looked super
strong right up until the last moment.
There were planning documents
circulating at the Pentagon about how
strong they were like two weeks before
they fell because
the their constitution their concept of
the constitution is fundamentally
corrupt. Right? That monopoly of power
saying that these people are going to
permanently be in charge.
You know it to be wrong. And so the
question is does it last 50 years? Does
it last 100 years? it does fall, right?
Cuz it's fundamentally illegitimate. The
Chinese Communist Party is illegitimate.
They are an illegitimate dictatorship.
And so I believe in the natural order of
humanity and freedom that at some point
it's the natural state and that
ultimately it prevails. But you know,
our enemies use our freedoms so
successfully against us. And I think the
real issue of our time will be
as they use these freedoms against us,
how will we have to fence them in to
prevent them from being completely
polluted? Like the SCOP of social media
on us, what they do against us in that
it's like enormous. And we're kind of
allowing it under the rubric of our
freedoms. So are we going to have to
degrade a portion of our freedoms in
order to protect ourselves? This this is
going to be the real hard part, you
know, against a very motivated and
sociopathic adversary that's
illegitimate.
>> What's the example of a degradation of
our freedom for protection?
>> This concept of when you're in the four
walls of the country, there's a there's
the general expectation of a freedom of
speech. And so that creates the freedom
for disinformation.
And now that you can amplify
disinformation through the concept of
freedom of speech, do you create this
alternative
world where people are disconnected from
reality? Think about where people get
their news from that there are no gates
on any of this anymore.
It's it's not something founders could
have ever contemplated but they are they
are they are true geniuses in that they
made our grid the the gridlock is super
intentional right so compare us to every
other parliamentary democracy in the
west every parliamentary democracy
pretty much in the west has a ceremonial
Senate the UK it's the house of lords
they don't have real power at the end of
the day of commons has power and then
when the party of power is in power is a
monopoly of power because they also
choose the prime minister. You don't
vote for the prime minister in a
parliamentary democracy. So in the
United States, our upper body is
completely separate with a different
term that's longer by design. So right
there you have a separation of powers
and then the executive is technically
voted on by the people. It is the purest
expression of democracy. You vote for
the president directly and the vice
president. is put you put them down. And
so you have an executive branch that is
separated from the party and this
president and previous presidents do
things that the parties don't like. And
you do not get that in parliamentary
democracies. And so parliamentary
democracies are more susceptible to
being overtaken in these mass hysteria
moments into things like fascism like
these these directions where the
gridlock was designed for to prevent
someone from co-opting the activity and
it makes us slow to respond. Right? But
we have the like the overarching
architecture is we are fundamentally
legitimate and these guys are not
legitimate. When people talk about some
of these things of like, oh, you know,
their society's eclipsing ours like,
dude, are you high? You are not free
there. You can't say what you want.
>> A very popular book these days cuz and
justifiably so, it's a great book is
Freedom's Forge about the mobilization
around World War II and the story of how
our industrial base moved so fast to
arm, you know, companies retooling
themselves. It's a great book. The
history of peacetime mobilizations in
democratic societies is mixed or bad.
Yes,
>> I guess we're not in peace time right
now, but we're not in some like global
scale war.
>> What do what what are the things that
you hope happen from here for the US to
be the best overall positioned in the
world? Well, we clearly need a change in
how we fund the department so we can
have longer visibility for capitalism to
answer the call and build the and build
the stock piles we need for that depth
of of whatever instrument of of
projecting force. And so one-year money
or a 10-year contract but subject to the
availability of funds is scary. We have
on average four or five continuing
resolutions a year. the the pecadillo of
CRS is no new starts are allowed. So if
you think the iteration of new
technology
is going faster and faster technically
if you have a new start you can't do it.
We're going to have to change some of
the laws and the rules of procurement
and we're going to need these multi-year
authorities in order to be able to build
this stuff. There are these things that
happen when we design the joint
structure where we say okay we're going
to make a joint strike fighter you know
between these branches of service. we
elevate it to this, you know, to this
catalog of joint weapons. And so the
manufacturer has a reasonable
expectation that you're going to keep on
ordering even if it's one-year money.
You're going to, you know, we're we know
there's going to be a multi-year
authority here at at some point. We need
to do it for the stock piles that we
believe are critical for rejecting
force. We need to do it across the board
to include ordinance and all these other
things, the Tomahawks,
the 155s, all of these kinetic articles
warfare. It's politics. We need you need
a fundamental change in in how we
appropriate and then we need to create
billets that lessen the political
influence over the things that we all
agree on as a country are
non-negotiable.
>> If you look back at the entire Ukraine
story now, what are the main things that
you've observed or learned like that
your main takeaways from watching the
whole thing unfold? the rate of
technological change in the commercial
world becomes this direct input into the
capabilities that you can um uh project
for mass. Drones have been used since
the Vietnam War, [clears throat] right?
But you wouldn't think that, right? It's
just drones became commercially viable
and cheap and by virtue of that became a
new article of war because they were so
inexpensive. It's the cost of losing one
is low. They gave you a lot of signals
intelligence at the end of the day. You
could deliver some lethality through the
weakness of some of these systems. But
it was the commercial viability and the
commercial pervasiveness of that product
that made it a great input into into a
military for mass. And so the commercial
world has so much influence on the rate
of change that will happen in warfare
because it's about your ability to
produce and your ability to sustain and
withstain. And so I just think
these wars actually work faster than
markets sometimes. Like the evolution of
a Ukrainian drone from three years ago
to today is like it's unbelievable.
There's like 50 iterations. There's all
these new capabilities. And that's
because you can sit in your garage
through commercial supply chains and
build the capabilities. We think of war
in this top gun style way and you don't
think about something that you could buy
at Best Buy as being important into the
projection of force. But things that
become permissive and inexpensive in a
commercial world have these have these
enormously valuable inputs into you know
into fighting kind of asymmetric war
clearly. What does this whole last six
months do to the likelihood uh or impact
of of something happening in Taiwan, do
you think?
>> So the likes of Kevin Rudd and and and
the kind of the real scholars of the
area. So Kevin Rudd used to be the
Australian prime minister um is fluent
in Mandarin by the way has PhD in
Mandarin is really a she watcher. He
said that she's a risk taker. I think,
you know,
if you've come to the end, if you've
gotten to a certain age and you view it
as the apotheiois of your life's
achievement in order to complete the
journey, which is to say
Imperial China is is is what Taiwan is.
And the takeover by the the CCP is not
complete until Taiwan falls. until that
counternarrative of how a Chinese
society can be run. And I don't think
she needs to go if KMT wins the election
um coming up. You know, KMT almost won
last time and that is a rapush mom party
to the CCP is clearly they like we don't
want war, we want peace. It's an
accommodation party and I believe a
bullet may never need to be fired in
order for China to get what they want.
So, and I think that's the more likely
outcome. It keeps with their strategy.
Like, why go? That terrain is hard. You
know, it will ostracize them in the
world. I just I don't see it
strategically. If they were running out
of options and they felt they had to do
it and she was near the end of his life,
I think the the likelihood would
increase. But, you know, the appetite
grows with the eating. And so if Taiwan
is overtaken in a military exercise, is
there any doubt that these other
countries that have a real historical
beast will be next? I mean, and that's
why Japan has been so viciferous at
advocating for strong defense now under
this new prime minister. She's tough
lady. She knows what happens. There is
just there's a real historical beef
between China and Japan. And I think
that would be exercised. You know, it it
would not stop at Taiwan. Most likely,
>> as your business scales up, everything
gets more complex, especially your
compliance and security needs. With so
many tools [music] offering band-aids
and patches, it's unfortunately far too
easy for something to slip through the
cracks. Fortunately, Vanta is a powerful
tool [music] designed to simplify and
automate your security work and deliver
a single source of truth for compliance
and risk. There's a reason that RMP,
Cursor, and Snowflake all use Vanta. It
frees them to focus on building amazing
differentiated products, [music] knowing
that compliance and security are under
control. Invest like the best listeners
get a special offer of $1,000 off Vanta
when you go to vanta.com/invest. [music]
I know firsthand how complex the tech
stack is for asset management firms. And
seemingly every new tool and data source
makes the problem even worse, adding
more complexity, more headcount, and
more [music] risk. Ridgeline offers a
better way forward. One unified platform
that automates away that complexity
across portfolio accounting,
reconciliation, reporting, trading,
compliance, [music] and more, all at
scale. Ridgeline is revolutionizing
investment management, helping ambitious
firms scale faster, operate smarter, and
stay ahead of the curve. See what
Ridgeline can unlock for your firm.
Schedule a demo at ridgeline.ai.
There's been this thousand flowers
blooming thing happening on the
entrepreneurial side of defense
companies here in the US. uh lots of
appetite after a long long drought like
basically no new companies and is is of
course the most famous um but tons of
companies doing something drone specific
companies submarine boats uh missiles
all basically everything it's 10 years
from now right
>> a whole bevy of neopimes have been
hugely successful their stuff is great
in the sense that it's used and it's the
thing we rely on you know more so than
the old primes and which from my
understanding is still the vast vast
vast majority of what gets used in war.
>> Um, so these new companies have won and
that's a good thing. What do you think
has to happen for that to be true?
>> We have to exercise so much of this and
so
there's a part here where you only
really know what's really good until you
go to war with it. That's why the
Warthog keeps on being reused. It's just
so mission capable. This thing has been
we we are supposed to we were supposed
to kill this thing like 30 separate
times and we we remobilized it for for
the Iranian contingency and so
you know theaters of war are the
laboratories for these products and so
to a certain extent we don't really know
how good these things are until we have
the contingent environment in order to
exercise the capability. So, we run
exercises in the training equipment, but
the proof in the pudding is when we
actually fight. And that's why drones
have had this huge iteration because
they're being used in an actual
contingent environment. And so, that's
why we've had so much iteration, so much
improvement, and now they will clearly
be this like important part of the
fulcrum of war. So, these other things
are are going to have to be used to
really know like the limit of the
capability in the cat- mouse game. But
my advice for Congress is is that we
have a we have a $ 1.5 trillion dollar
designed FY uh 27 budget, right? I don't
think we're going to get all that money.
But in in that enormous surface area of
a budget, you can continually allocate a
lot more towards the concept of risk in
order to to maintain technological
superiority. I think the FFRDC budget
needs to be a portion needs to be
repointed towards industry
so we can encourage you know the
iteration of these commercial
developments to see how how good they
can get and exercise them in our own way
to simulate war to see how good we can
get them. So we need to allocate a
portion of the budget. It needs to be
exclusively and it needs to be more
coordinated. So it can't be spread out
as much as it we federate the research
and development portion of the budget in
so many different ways. We're going to
have to take a concerted effort here for
these legs of future power and we're
going to have to continually reinvest in
them even if we don't get a great
business out of it because
we may not get a war in order to test
all this stuff and you don't obviously
you don't want the tail to wag the dog
for the purposes of just exercising the
equipment. So we need to allocate a more
meaningful amount to try and then
Congress needs to create multi-year
authorities across the stack. like these
continuing resolutions are they kill
industry and that is something I
consistently worry about because we are
going to lose these companies through
CRS and through the absence of
multi-year authority because right now
the capital markets are working for
these businesses and they are able to
outpace the innovation of the department
and the congress in order to move faster
but capital markets aren't things that
Yeah, trees don't grow to the sky. And
so there has to be return and exit at
some point. And so if you get that and
you get that flywheel, then great. Maybe
capitalism can be the exclusive
solution. But we're going to need
Congress to make more multi-year
authority money available. And then
we're going to have to allocate the
budget as a percentage for higher risk
and reward. The Manhattan project was 1%
of GDP. you know, that project like
we're gonna have to have our own couple
hundred, you know, bips of GDP levels of
effort in in these certain areas. We're
going to have to make those kinds of
investments and have
multi-year kind of world view as to how
we get there.
>> Are some of these companies have been
around? Is any of the stuff produced by
these places being used? And if not, why
not in the like if if we only know if it
works in in actual battle,
>> right? We're in a bunch. There's a lot
of battles in the world right now. A lot
of military equipment being used. Is the
neopime stuff being used? If so, how? If
not, why not?
>> Some of these companies are are
relatively new and haven't fielded
systems of record. And then look, the
way we build our military and the and
the promise we make to our GIS,
soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines, is
that we are going to train and equip you
on these things at the end of the day
for the express purposes of of of giving
you the chance to win. And
[clears throat] so it it's part of our
moral code and the way we train and
equip the forces. And then we have to
simulate it in the joint doctrine of
warfare. And so just because I make a
new widget doesn't mean I can ingest it
so easily. We have to exercise it and
impute it into this into this joint
concept of warfare with all these other
things. So it's not easy. And look there
clearly on the targeting side these
technologies are being used. The signals
intelligence clearly that stuff is being
used. The elements of projection of
force outside of drones hasn't really
gotten there yet. But targeting is
pretty important right? You think of
World War II, we would carpet bomb an
entire environment. And so people are
like, "Well, we produce so much mass in
World War II." But look at the efficacy
of the mass. It was super low, right?
And so what we have now is you have
highly precise, but we don't have the
quantum of mass because of the precision
and the sophistication. And so now we're
going to need to bring it back a little
bit more to the center to increase the
mass. And maybe these these targeting
networks and some of the software and
the knowledge that we've built in
signals intelligence can augment the
cost of the precision that we have to
have on board in order to make them
cheaper at the end of the day. So it's
not a it's not a fair criticism to say
oh the neopimes stuff's not being used
at the limit in war. It's because we
have to integrate it into the joint
concept of warfare. back to where we
started of what it means to win,
>> right?
>> The war in Iran is extremely unpopular
in polls or whatever of US citizens.
>> You said we live in a democracy like the
will of the people matters.
>> What what what can be done to win? I
think the popular or the percentage of
the Iranian population, it's like 10 out
of 90 million or something are are loyal
to the existing regime. like is there
anything short of actual regime change
that can cause a win to happen and how
do we do that if so or how do we affect
that outcome?
>> Well, I mean if I knew the answer, you
know, the red phone over there would be
ringing pretty quickly. These regimes
can last for a very long time and so how
do we muster the political will to have
staying power that outlasts the
political cycle? It's so hard, right,
against a red Shia culture of martyrdom.
But at some point,
we have to agree as a society that the
value system of some of these cultures
has been hijacked and they are
fundamentally incompatible with
modernity.
This is a clash of civilizations.
[snorts]
And
who wants to tackle it when you don't
have to? But it's, you know, there's a
risk in going always and then there's a
risk in not going. And the provalactic
always feels worse because the clarity
of when to go wasn't wasn't decided for
you. Like America didn't enter World War
II because of the concern we had over
Germany. We ultimately end entered World
War II because the Japanese bombed Pearl
Harbor. They made it crystal clear. But
with the benefit of hindsight, obviously
the provalactic probably would have been
better to prevent, you know, the
adversary from accumulating all this
power because they had a value system
that clash with our worldview of
modernity. And I would argue the red
Shia martyrdom
cult, the fanaticism
is incompatible with humanity preserving
itself. Can you imagine if that
fanaticism got its hands on the ability
to project nuclear weaponry?
And so I get why it's unpopular.
Doing something in advance of something
becoming existential is not fun because
you can always second guess when to go.
>> What have we not talked about that you
have your mind on these days?
>> Well-known ambassador to the United
States. He said something to me that I
thought was so profound. He said, you
know, Democrats are obsessed with
process and Republicans are obsessed
with outcome.
And that's the challenge between these
two sides of the aisle right now. It's a
very good mix, right? Because, you know,
if you have someone that that spends a
lot of calories on form and someone
that's very outcome focused, too, and
you can bring the concept together, you
should get the optimal outcome. You
know, presidents have declared or have
functionally created contingencies
without the consent of Congress since
Truman. So, it's just, you know, when
the opposite side of the aisle is doing
something, it's an affronttery. And so I
think that statement is actually very
profound because you can kind of see it
in the current contingency right now.
We're not we're not following a process
that's conventional. What would be
conventional, right? Conventional would
be you go to the UN, Security Council
resolution,
buildup to the war,
this kind of diplomacy,
shots fired.
That would be the conventional way that
it would happen, you know, but obviously
if it's devoid of the outcome at the end
of the day, what was the purpose of it?
Think of the Iraq contingency. And so
here it's like there hasn't been any of
that process. Could you get the outcome
that you wanted? And then history would
forgive you at the end of the day. And
so I think you're seeing the strength
and the weaknesses of both of those
worldviews play out over the last, you
know, 25 years, right? Gulf War II, it
was this we tried to remake the
environment in our image instead of
remaking it in our interest, right? And
then now we're operating almost
exclusively to try and remake these
environments in our interest and not in
our image. Venezuela is a perfect
example of that. That environment is
functionally remade in our interest. You
know, I know a whole series of members
of Congress that just went to Venezuela
for a trip, former members of Congress.
>> Yeah. A lot of people are gone.
>> Yeah. for like a business trip, right? I
mean, like, can you imagine that four
months ago? It's kind of amazing. And
so, but the power structure there hasn't
changed, right? We've just we've chopped
off the head and we've remade the
environment and our interests, not in
our image. I think that's probably a
good natural evolution of where we've
been. The question is, will it be enough
to change the behaviors of these
martyrdom cultures that point towards
their suffering as as a as a test of
faith that they're winning? I'm like,
how do you win that? Pretty tough.
>> I realize I didn't ask you about AI.
What wrench does that throw in the works
of all of this stuff?
>> I'm so fascinated by how it can be
co-opted. So, I don't know if you've
read these stories about people
producing fake academic papers for the
purposes of and leaving them out there
on established sites that require, you
know, the established sites say like
this isn't peer reviewed, but it exists
in the ether and we're going to get to
it and here's the access to the paper
and then the models pick it up. And one
in particular, one test of this was
someone invented a phenomena or I think
they invented a medical condition and
left it out on an academic website
posted for about 3 months and then asked
a large model
>> about it and
>> and then and then it said, "Oh, you have
this you have this disease and you made
it up." And so we're like we're talking
right now about the power of AI and its
ability to do all this comput and it's
smarter than us but if we co-opt it like
the danger of co-opting these models
when they become part of the loop of
decision-m in these important like
military system
can you imagine if you can create a
foundation of fact that is wrong for a
model right
I I could see an alternative universe
where the models become complete towers
of babel. We've lost them, right?
Because of what they've imputed through
the junk that we've posted. Interesting
place to leave it off. Darren, [snorts]
thanks for your time.
>> Of course, beer.
>> You know how small advantages [music]
compound over time. That's true in
investing and just as true in how you
run your company. Your spending system
is your capital allocation strategy.
Ramp makes it smarter by default. Better
data, better decisions, better economics
over time. See how [music] at
ramp.com/invest.
As your business grows, Vanta scales
with you, automating compliance and
giving you [music] a single source of
truth for security and risk. Learn more
at vanta.com/invest.
Every [music] investment firm is unique
and generic AI doesn't understand your
process. Rogo does. It's an AI platform
built specifically for Wall Street,
connected to your data, understanding
your process, and producing real
outputs. Check them out at
rogo.ai/invest.
The best AI and software companies from
OpenAI to Cursor [music] to Perplexity
use work OS to become enterprise ready
overnight, not in months. Visit
works.com to skip the unglamorous
[music]
infrastructure work and focus on your
product. Ridgeline is redefining asset
management technology as a true partner,
[music] not just a software vendor.
They've helped firms 5x and scale,
enabling faster [music] growth, smarter
operations, and a competitive edge.
Visit ridgelineapps.com
to see what they can unlock for your
firm.